# Why and when to use Kubernetes

Kubernetes is tool for orchestrating your containers, usually in larger scale environtments where you have multiple containers running on multiple hosts. It allows you to deploy and manage all your containers with command line tool called kubectl. You can also deploy through .yaml -files which makes it easy to deploy for example through Jenkins pipeline.  

Configuration files work pretty much like ones in Docker compose with main addition to deploy on multiple hosts where compose only deploys to the host its ran on. (They even have tool to deploy compose files to cluster or convert them to Kubernetes deploy files). Thats why Kubernetes is great choice when many hosts are involved. Especially in production and test environtments (only environments I have personally used it on).  

Kubernetes functions mainly through "clusters" and "pods" inside of them. Cluster is the whole system you are working with and pods are components that contaienrs are ran in. Sounds easy enough but managing them is still not trivial and it should be considered carefully if Kubernetes is really needed. First of all CI/CD -pipeline should be ready before anything else since running Kuberenetes deploys is best done automatically at the end of pipeline. Also there is lots of other things that have to be taken into account. For example monitoring, storage, how different components are behaving together; defining communications, networking security etc. All these can add extra costs and problems and should be clarified before actual orchestrating of containers.  

All in all Kuberetes is great tool for managing large multi host systems running containers and its only place it should be used for.
  
